all right folks welcome back
our continuing series on the
2022 free ict mentorship
on youtube we're looking at the e-mini s
p june contract for 2022 daily chart all
right so i'm going to teach you a little
bit about intraday profiles and daily
range
and we're going to be using
this
idea here
so
initially on twitter
if you were following me on
that platform
and i mentioned how i was going to start
the day looking for a potential run to
40-70
okay so 40-70 was my
initial draw on liquidity to see if
people want to reach down into that
level if you look in this area here
that's my fair value gap
and you can see we traded down into it
here
then today one more time you shoot it
into it left these relative equal lows
in place
and then started to move higher
i took everybody's attention to
previous days high
and
this high here
and if this continues to go higher
i mentioned this before
i can't recall what video
but i know i mentioned it in here this
is where we could potentially draw up to
for our enemy term
target our objective
but i'm not cosigning that just yet
right here
and here is enough okay
so we're expecting higher prices after
this shift in intraday volatility
so we'll look at that now going into
lower time frames
all right here's the hourly chart
you can see how we
[Music]
did not take these relative equal those
out i want to see it go down there
that's what i was looking forward to try
to draw it into that
it didn't do it
it did not give a setup either based on
the model i'm teaching you
so
i used the intraday volatility and the
framework to kind of like
teach it today a little bit more about
bias how to change gears with your bias
how to also manage your bias okay so
initially in the beginning of the
morning i was looking for a potential
run to 40 70. it gave an opportunity
to
tape read
quote unquote paper trade or even demo
using
the draw on liquidity but
the model itself
didn't materialize okay so
because i'm the author of these concepts
i have a lot of tools at my disposal and
i have a little bit better understanding
of
price delivery than
the average student of mine so if i go
in and i show you something in this
lecture today the main takeaways before
i get into is this
what did i do and how do i go about
abandoning a specific bias
how do i change gears if it is
applicable sometimes it's not applicable
to reverse it just means moves or
sidelines and just say i'm not going to
do anything
and what are the characteristics that
would lead to
a bias that is changed
and how do you use
that logic going forward
and how to navigate the new york lunch
hour okay so we're going to tackle those
topics in this video all right so notice
that we had this low here
taken with this run
then this low was taken with this run
and this low was taken with that run so
notice what we are seeing we're seeing
multiple lows
get taken
and then
the market reverses
while offering really no
high probability shorting opportunity
the 4070 level never got tagged
liquidity left in place
okay
previous day's high
which is here
that high
was not traded to
so we have
a high of 41 68 and a quarter
then we have a fair value gap over here
so you have two premium arrays
that may be
a draw on liquidity that takes it up in
the air and maybe even run above
these relative equal highs all right on
the 15 minute time frame you can see how
we just kept going lower than the
previous lows
and then
finally we had a run higher so we had a
short term shift in market structure
relative to the 15 minute time frame
remember that's our bellwether chart
so it runs higher
creates a fair value gap in here and
trades down into it here okay
one of the things i want to kind of
bring to your attention because a lot of
you are familiar with a gentleman by the
name of chris laurie and he talks about
liquidity voids where
he teaches how the market wants to come
back down and
fill all that area in
as you probably noticed i don't teach
that i teach obviously there's times
when that can occur but
because i understand the algorithm that
is not likely to occur most times okay
so
it's important to know where the
market's reaching for
and then look for these imbalances in
price
and then what makes it a fair value gap
is the fact that it's coming down into
this area here
or inside this area here
or this area here or this area here
so they're all fair value gaps
it's a fair value to buy it
if you're bullish
okay
i'm not trying to
insist that these imbalances completely
rebalance that's one of the main
differentiations between me
and chris laurie
now i'm not knocking chris lord because
i believe if you want to learn price
action it's basic and goes beyond the
average retail stuff
then you can learn from him uh he's the
only one i really give a nod to in
technical analysis and as far as
education and i send people there all
the time i don't have a relationship
with him on a business level and he
doesn't give me any kickbacks i don't
ask for anything i just think he's a
generally nice guy okay so there you go
but there is a stark contrast between
what he does and what i do and how i
teach
so
there's a there's a degree of
precision
that is
given to you when you understand the
things i'm teaching you it goes beyond
simply imbalance rebounds
while that is important there are times
when that is
a factor
but what i'm teaching you is where is
the market likely to go to okay
i'm not trying to teach you entry
patterns with a
importance that getting in in a specific
price level is the most important factor
i'm teaching you how to determine where
the market's likely to go to next
where's that draw on liquidity
now there's a lot of different ways
that that is calculated
on an institutional level okay and how
it's determined
it's not buying selling pressure okay
but it is
algorithmic
so the easiest way for me to cut through
all of the very complicated things that
could very easily bog you down and you
may feel like the things i'm teaching
are complicated and i guess
when you remove the idea of putting an
indicator that says your overbought
oversold or crossing over two lines that
gives you a buy or sell
you know
it's not in my opinion
wisdom to
exchange
a decision especially if you ever decide
to do this with real money
it's not wise for you to determine
your
bet
or your gamble or your investment on
what an indicator is saying versus
reading price action and getting the
logic behind what it's doing okay and
that's narrative what is narrative
narrative is the understanding of what
price should do
why
and what things will it encounter to
prove that the narrative that you are
assuming is in place
is in fact underway
now that's a
mouthful i'm sure most of you probably
didn't get much out of that but i'm
going to break it down for you i was
looking for 40 70 today to see if it can
get down outside the range of that daily
fair value gap
and
we failed to do so and then the market
shifted higher
now the whole time i'm looking at the
market it's not giving me any kind of
short
i'm not comfortable taking any kind of
short and all of a sudden the market
does this
okay
no panic
no i'm missing a move no
you know calling somebody else or
reaching out to somebody on a social
media platform and ask them what do you
think's happening
i don't worry about anybody else's
opinion you shouldn't worry about
anybody else's opinion either
you're going to learn how to trust
yourself
so we had created a fair value gap here
on the 15 minute time frame so right
away that is your
area to watch and see if price supports
a run if it digs into that and starts to
repel higher
and we take out this short short-term
high that is enough to set up a stage
for the afternoon trend
okay that afternoon session move or set
up or price swing
that's what we're looking for now
because the market failed to go to an
objective we were looking for
it was respecting that daily fair value
gap and it rallied up and what very
valuable is that it began the video i
showed you on the daily chart
here
it took out that short term high so now
we have an absolute market structure
shift
bullish with this swing high and the
market comes back down in here and
rebalances
this very very yeah
now
i'm not looking at and this is where one
of the instances where
resistance broken turns support but it
digs a little bit past that
okay
notice that it goes down into my fair
value gap not stopping dead in its
tracks right up to high
notice that
so
i'm not looking at support and
resistance i'm looking at the fact that
we went through this short term high
created an imbalance and then we treated
that into that now when we get in this
area here
i'm interested in looking at intermarket
relationships i want to study real
accumulation and distribution
okay how do i do that i've already tell
you we're going to go into the lower
time frame five minute chart all right
so here's the five minute chart
as you can see the market did you know
drop down i did real quick sudden move
after i tweeted saying that my initial
interest was 40 70 and it started
drawing lower
and then went one more time here
at 10 after nine took out that short
term low there and then started rallying
higher at 9 30 opening
and then we dig down into
that 15-minute time frame
there you go
so
it doesn't look like a fair bag gap in
here notice that
but i want you to go back to your
15-minute chart
this is where the work is required on
your part
in this price run from here to here
on that 15-minute chart
look at your chart and
shade that in on a 15-minute time frame
and then drop down into the five-minute
you'll see how it drops into that shaded
area so we're working from a higher time
frame 15-minute bellwether chart
into a five-minute chart this is running
into that fair value gap now if you're
just staying on one time frame or at
least not carrying over higher time
frame
analysis into your lower time frame
you're gonna be trading blind you have
no idea what you're looking for now i
know what i'm looking for because i have
multiple charts in front of me multiple
monitors and i'm i'm panning around when
i do my recordings like i did this
morning
you can see that i actually executed the
trade you can see where i got in you can
see the actual executions you can see
the little arrows that show where i got
in i show the price and you can see the
partials along the way and the whole
business okay
so if you're not following me on twitter
you don't need to follow me i'm not
asking you to follow me
but you can go to twitter and you can
see that that is
uh in fact shown to you there
short little vignettes i call them
stingers okay i do small little
uh segments of me actually treating or
i'll do analysis or commentary without
really seeing anything and i'll play
music behind it because i'm having fun
i'm enjoying myself hopefully you guys
are here on twitter having fun with me
if you're digging it and you're enjoying
yourself on my twitter feed give me a
heads up in the in the comments below
all right so anyway it digs down into
that 15 minute time frame for everybody
gap here and then
rallies higher
then it starts to trail off
and goes down into
this imbalance right here now in that
little stinger video i draw this little
area out with a rectangle
and i do a small little box up here okay
and what that box is is if it goes down
into here
and starts to rally i'm going to take
half that position off once it gets into
this area here again
okay i don't need to go above this short
term high so that's what that little
red rectangle represents when you see me
doing that stinger
little vignette video in my twitter feed
i'm drawing your attention here so when
we go from this level here if it starts
to rally up
once it gets back up in that area again
i'm going to take half the position off
and then
see if it can run about that high
okay so that's what i was drawing today
i'm drawing reference that's that way
when i talk to you tonight because this
is our tuesday lecture
i'm showing you now what it is i was
referring to and why it was there
also if you
scrub back over here
you'll see it's an old area of bicep
liquidity
here
and it's a fair value gap over there too
okay so that little rectangle here is
drawing special attention to
me reminding myself that over here
there's bicep liquidity that is not
showing in that video that i'm recording
in an imbalance over here so
when it runs back up into that
this old area of bicep liquidity this
might be just a stop run and they're
going one more time passing into that
level so i want to make sure i get half
my position off because i could be wrong
like i was wrong about 40 70 didn't
trade to it
well here
at 10 35
right there
10 35 right there i tweeted i said note
your previous day's high
okay previous day is high
is here
so if we
add the annotations
back to the chart
and we'll remember that 4168 and what
price is that
41 68 and a quarter so that's our high
that we're likely to draw to that's what
i was kind of drawing everyone's
attention to
and i'll not add the annotations back
all right so here is what i had in the
recording i shaded this area in here it
was a like a shaded box i just drew
these
really prominent
lines here so we can recall that to the
pair of head gap that i showed in that
little vignette video
and i want to talk a little bit about
new york lunch
okay i gave you rules of engagement when
you're trading the afternoon session
and primarily what i gave you for the
model was a morning session idea but
because of other people asking me and
inquiring hey can you teach us a little
bit about the pm session or the
afternoon setup
i started bringing in some things
now if the market starts to go higher
okay in other words if we've been in a
bullish market structure
and order flow is bullish that means
everything's going in one direction
the market's obviously going higher on
all time frames
then that's in the easy trading scenario
but we're inside that little trading
range area on the daily chart last few
days
you know or a week or so it's just been
hanging around that smaller range so you
have to know what you're doing
or you're going to get caught up
so initially i wanted that 40-70 level
we failed to go outside the shaded area
here that's that daily fair valuable so
i've added it here for your edification
notice that these lows here here this is
lower than that one why is that
important why am i drawing a distinction
between those two well if you go and you
add your nasdaq chart overlay you'll see
that this is a divergence
so even the s p was relatively stronger
than that of the
nasdaq nasdaq made a lower low here
okay
and i'll show you that before i close
the lecture out but for now this is that
five minute
chart returning back into that 15 minute
imbalance
so that's there for your edification as
well
this is the opening price at midnight
that's what that level is
now i teach if we're bullish we want to
be buying at
or close to
the opening price
okay
now
here's one of those advance
ict things
okay
if you know that the market is likely
to go down to go up
then you can wait for
price to give you this type of setup
right here where it goes down
shift the market structure come back
down into a 15 minute time frame if
everybody got
this is intraday or day trading it is
not the model i gave you where it is a
scalp essentially that's what that is
the model i've provided for you for this
youtube channel is a scalping
model
that's exactly what it is but if you're
going to day trade daily range
you're going to be using the 15 and 5
minute chart
and there it is now you can use that
model that i gave you for
entries and
scalping you can use that as your entry
criteria but with the logic and
narrative that you're going to trade in
the daily range okay
so
if we're bullish i teach and i have
taught on this youtube channel multiple
times
my power three concept is if we're
bullish we're gonna be looking for the
opening price at midnight
is going to drop down create the low of
the day it's forming it
at 905 i'm sorry 9 10
new york local time
it rallies up shift and market structure
so it doesn't give me my objective but
it gives me these clues here now whole
time i'm i'm not tweeting to you i'm
studying christ i'm working with my son
and i'm
measuring all these things
because last word i gave on twitter was
i was looking for 40 70. no problem no
trade either but i mentioned that there
was no setup there's nothing going on
and then the market rallies up
okay what i was looking for it didn't
reach it and it didn't give me a setup
did i lose any money did i take any kind
of a a painful ego twist to my arm no
was i wrong in the public eye well some
of you may think that because it didn't
go to 40 70 but
if i'm looking for something to deliver
and it doesn't give me a setup last time
i checked if you don't put a trade on
did you lose no
if you put some skin in the race and you
tell the public what you think is going
to happen it doesn't happen do you lose
well it depends on what your audience's
mentality is if they're looking for face
value yeah i was wrong about 40 70. you
hear that
ict didn't get something he thought
40 70 didn't print
no problem
i don't need to be right the smt
divergence here
in the
higher low versus the lower low in
nasdaq comparably
and then we have the shift in market
structure we treat it back down into the
15 minute fair value up here and then we
rally once more once i saw that then i'm
good to go i'm waiting for the afternoon
setup
but now watch what's happening the
market rallies uh fall short of 41.40
that was another level i gave in that
little stinger video
on my twitter feed so i'm going to come
to the google and check that out
and then it drops down
into the fair value gap
starts to rally but look what it does it
leaves these smooth relative equal highs
and then does what drops once more below
that short term low now think about what
i've given you in your notes as it
relates to trading the pm or afternoon
session
if you're bullish
generally what will happen is the market
has ran higher in the morning then it
consolidates
into the lunch hour then after the lunch
hour
it'll drop down and sweep to sell stops
or below some short term low or the lows
made in lunch
okay
now watch what this does here
it creates a low
ahead of the lunch hour at noon
then it drops down into the fairbank gap
is that not doing what i gave you in
terms of the rules of what liquidity is
doing
in the afternoon
post new york lunch when we're bullish
yes
what's different
it's not consolidating
see that
is this a consolidation no it's a
retracement so if you can identify an
area where it's likely to retrace and
some of you asked on the twitter feed
why am i measuring from here to here to
get this
versus this here to here well you have
to bring in what i'm trying to do i'm
training the daily range i'm trying to
get the majority or the alliance portion
of the daily range
so because i'm doing that
i'm factoring in that
midnight opening price so we've went
above it here
and once more so i'm not expecting it to
go back down below here again so to
refer to this low now
again is
pointless i'm going to use this one here
for market structure so market structure
swing low here to swing high that's my
dealing range so that's why i outlined
that one here
okay and i gave you that small little
rectangle here drawing my attention in
there in the video here to go back what
i mentioned moments ago that that's an
old imbalance and it may
stall here it may fail here
it may just consolidate and then run for
previous days high
you know on wednesday
so i want to take half my trade off
which is what i which is basically what
you saw me do
but anyway it's taking out that short
term low on a retracement but if it was
consolidating into lunch i would look
for the swing lows during the lunch hour
and then wait for it to drop down sweep
them like it's doing here and then rally
but because this is a retracement
going into lunch
that to me
it signals that they're going to work
through lunch
what does that mean years ago when we
were on the floor only open outcry
sometimes the floor traders
would know that the mark was in a hurry
it's a fast market so they're not going
off the floor they're going to stay busy
on the floor and they're gonna be
trading
so
i learned this from an actual floor
trader so i'm i'm not making it up i'm
not you know listen you just giving you
some kind of garbage made up or some
contrived nonsense
it's based on what they used to do
and
that same mentality has been
transferred into electronic trading so
the algorithm does that same thing here
during the lunch hour if it's a fast
market it's retracing back down in to a
random
fair value gap it creates a short term
low and then it runs the only short term
low that's there from here to here
this is too narrow
we don't want that it's already moved
too much
and it's going into that hour ahead of
lunch time
noon
to one
new york local time
so i want to see it retrace back down
into a discount how is that done from
that low to high so the algorithm
reprices to a discount once it gets to
here
then it does what
creates that short term low rallies a
little bit leaves smooth highs in here
so what is that they think that is
resistance so anyone that's short they
treat their stop loss here
and drops one more time right below that
short term level what's below that short
term low i have already told you here
cell stops
so i'm thinking
like smart money
this is going to go higher in the
afternoon
i didn't take anything in here in the
morning and i was not correct in where i
thought it could reach for which is 40
70. if it would have went to 40 70 you
know what i would have done said there's
your 40-70 and you would have asked did
you take a trade
or the cynics would have said but you
didn't take a trade
that's not what i'm trying to teach you
i'm not trying to teach you entries i'm
teaching you the logic on how to read
the markets that way once you get this
skill set down the entries are the
easiest thing to do
they're that's the easiest thing to do
but you have to know how to read the
market and also tell when the market's
turning
and what is if it's turning where's it
gonna go
and if it's gonna go higher where will
setups form i showed you that today
right on twitter
right there in front of everybody
now
the market drops down into the sell
stops here and it's inside that fair
value got and it's happening
in the lunch hour
now i had things i'd take care of and i
was going to be away from the screens as
i was
and i didn't think i'd be back before
two o'clock but i was managing that
trade
from my cell phone and you can see that
cell phone
trade management in the short little
vignette you can see the stops being
raised and i'm taking partials along the
way the whole business
but as it's going up into this area here
i'm taking
some of the contracts off
and i'm raising the stop loss up
because i don't want it to come back
down into that fair value gap again
because what it done is once
twice it should never come back down
that again if it does i'm wrong and i
don't want to be a part of that trade if
i'm in a position that's still open or
have a partial open from the original
position after partials have been taken
then i'm going to kill the trade
and i'll move to the sidelines
but the main thing i want you to
understand about this is
i'm not trading the model that i'm
teaching on youtube and you're probably
going to say well why don't you just
trade the model michael why don't you
just teach us how to use the model i am
when the model speaks i'm going to show
you but i'm also teaching you how
you still learn to read price when the
model isn't giving you a setup
because
every single
market isn't going to give you that
model's entry
setup and framework every single day
every single session
and because i'm the author of these
concepts i don't have a limitation to
just that one so
is it beneficial for you to have me say
nothing when the model says nothing
or is it beneficial for me to teach you
how to read price action
how to get in sync and learn how to
change gears when the market shows you
it's time to change gears
i think that's a little bit better
expectation
on the part of a student
with that of us a mentor that has the
experience i'm trying to share with you
so there's there's two camps that's
going to be looking at this video and
they're going to say
he's not really good teacher because
he's not focusing on the model when i'm
telling you the model didn't do anything
today in this index so
what did i lean on
my experience my ability and the
concepts that are already taught in this
youtube channel
so
one of the
twitter followers mentioned today that
uh
can
they use
time frames outside of the one through
five minute chart
but use the same logic yes
yes that's all i'm trying to do i'm
trying to teach you a mindset that
on the lowest time frame it gives you a
lot of experience a lot of setups a lot
of things to practice
but don't limit yourself to that because
there's so many other ways to trade
using what i'm teaching you and you can
scale it to whatever time frame and
every whatever chart you want to use it
on okay but you still have to understand
what price is likely to do and where is
it drawing to okay so let's talk a
little bit about narrative
when the market shifted here bullishly
and it came back down into that 50
minute time frame fair value and then
rallied this right here told me that
they want to set this up for a bullish
run in the afternoon why go back to that
daily chart remember we were inside this
shaded area here that's the fair value
gap did i did not shade when we were
looking at the daily chart naked at the
beginning of the video
if you shade that on your own chart
you'll see when you drop down the lower
time frame five minute chart yours will
look like this
so it dips down into that lower end of
that ferrari gap and it rallies trades
back down into the 15 minute time frame
fair value got which is what that is
here
then it rallies now right away in my
mind
this tells me that the algorithm is
priming itself for an afternoon run to
potentially previous day's high which is
this level up here okay
so from here right when it crossed over
here i'm thinking okay it could
potentially be running previous days
high i don't know yet then when it drops
down into here and then rallies from
that then i know it
now that's narrative
okay
by itself it doesn't mean go in here and
buy it because hey the narrative says
it's going to probably run to previous
days high because i could see
myself stopped out if i'm premature i
want to see something that makes sense
logically so that means do we see
displacement yeah we do
is that an energetic price run oh yeah
it is
then that low to that high i want to get
that measurement for premium to discount
and what do i want to wait for
a discount
so i measured from that low to that high
in that short little vignette video on
my twitter feed
and 50 and went below that and that's
the fair value gap so it trades down
into here creates a short term low and
then drops into it here now what happens
if it went here and rallied okay well i
would have missed a move
but i'm looking for sell side liquidity
i want to see a stop run
because what that's doing and how this
fits into narrative is if i'm thinking
that this move here to here and then
retracing down is setting up an
afternoon run to potentially this level
here by the close of the day
i want to be like smart money and do
what
buy
sell stops that is buying sell side
liquidity
my order
as it's underneath here i fill right
here
i'm buying it on this candle right there
i think you probably don't believe me
i'm going to show you the candlesticks
in a minute but i drop down into it i go
long there
and then i wait for it to rally up so it
starts to rally up it consolidates a
little bit in here and then
to almost come out above this high and
it creates a little small little
consolidation and then pumps it through
the old high and the 4140 level
creates a short-term high rallies once
more i draw a line on here because i
want to see if price can be supported by
that down closed candle
that's an order block it trades through
it and once it did that
i mixed the trade okay i have taken a
lot of the trade off through here
and i'm also
in an environment still inside that
daily range
of multiple days on the daily chart
where
it might not go to previous days high
today so this might be it and it might
need to
use wednesday's trading so that was my
thought process for closing the trading
and protecting my stop loss which never
would have been hit because the stock
was below here
but it came down closed in this very
very gap
rallied again this is an optimal trade
entry once more
pushing it higher but still did not hit
the previous day's high now think about
this folks
think
at the beginning of the day i tweeted
public knowledge i want to see initially
if it wants to make a run down the 40-70
okay
and as soon as i tweeted it it was like
off the races it goes
right in here boom and then boom and
then drifted down to it here and it made
a low of 40 76 even
didn't break out below the fair value
gap that's formed on the daily chart
that's again that shaded area here
and
i'd have this tweet here so you can see
that's the time at 10 35 that's when i
said no yesterday's high so
that is
there on
this candle and here 10 35 i'm tweeting
note previous days high
so i'm drawing your attention up here
so if a retracement comes back down into
what i shared in that video beforehand
before it even came down here i'm
showing you this
and
i gave you this level up here as
previous days high in chart format in
the video showing you that this is where
my my mindset is i'm thinking think up
here this is where it's going to draw to
likely
and it's going to retrace down to this
level here so right away this should
tell you that for the folks that are
paying attention
ict says
that it's probably going to go up in the
afternoon
and it's probably going to gravitate
towards this level up here which is
previously high and he's showing this
level here
where he's taught optimal trade entry
fair value gap when it goes down to here
it's in what a discount so we're moving
from a discount
to buy liquidity
so the premium array is up here the
discount array is here doesn't it make
sense
for you to anticipate the move or
originating basically from here
running above here taking a partial and
seeing if it can gravitate towards the
high yes
so you studied that way so that's what i
do with my students in my private group
that's what i'm doing with you okay
folks listen
i've had
thousands of emails
come to me in the last couple months
asking
to let you all in my private group
my private group is done i don't even
make videos for them anymore okay we
just chit chat on a forum now that's all
it is i'm teaching mentorship right here
for free you don't have to have a paypal
account you don't have to give me a
credit card number you don't have to
worry about missing your payment
nothing all you have to do is show up
every time i do this or show up over
there on twitter see what i'm doing over
there
and
i promise you
if you stick with it the things i'm
teaching you
work they were i absolutely used this
logic today i didn't
create something new today this is
exactly what i'm teaching you
as a mentorship
this is it
i did the very thing i'm teaching you
with
so that way you can see uh put a button
was pushed
do i need to put a trade on every single
day to teach you now
will i continue to show trades yes
will you be accepted into my private
group no
so please don't ask okay that community
is closed to them
and
you are all benefiting and believe me
they're learning along with you with
this mentorship
paid members that went through my
private group they're learning things
just like you are right here
because i'm taking things and
simplifying them
if i let you all into that group
and took all of your money
you would all be confused okay because
there's so many things it's very very
detailed i have simplified it here
that's all i've done i've made it very
simple so that we can go in look at
these things and make it applicable
because you need to learn how to do this
before it gets hard
and it's going to get real hard folks
read between the lines and think about
what i'm saying look around the world's
changing okay
so put in the time
don't rush it you don't need to worry
about taking a year to learn how to do
this i've streamlined this okay
i'm here
until the good lord takes me or takes
away my mental faculties i'm on youtube
okay i'm on twitter i love doing this
i love being back in this capacity i'm
free to do what i want to do i'm
enjoying myself and all of you both
private membership and public mentorship
you're all benefiting from it and i'm
having fun with you so don't mess it all
up by stressing me out asking me to join
a group that i'm not going to let you
join anyway and i don't want your money
so stop asking me
so anyway
uh this is where we're at right now i
think we'll probably want to sweep up
here maybe that might even happen
tonight during the asian session but
let's take a look at the
executions
and on this candle here the low on this
candle look at this figure right here
okay
that low is 411 even
and the low on this candle
comes in at 4108 and a quarter
and my fill
41 10 and a quarter below
that low whoops i'm sorry i'm doing the
wrong i'm doing the wrong one
the low is 41 10 and a half
and then my
candle of entry was here the low was 41
0 8 and a quarter and my fill was still
below that it's 41 10 and a quarter so
one quarter point below that okay
so there's the entry right there
and then
partial here
another partial there so half the
position cup up 10 contracts
on this price and took out took off half
in that area where that rectangle was
drawn in that little vignette video okay
again i'm doing this folks
look back over here
see this area over here
and these relative equal highs i'm
thinking that it could do this and maybe
this might be a failure swing right and
then go lower so i'm taking off half in
the event that i'm possibly wrong
so that's why i did that
and you understand that
and i took another partial off here i
tweeted and paid the trader
okay so three contracts there at 41 34
and a half
and then i waited for it to pump up
through this old high and the 4140 level
at 41 41 and a half
now actually i was like
three seconds late i was waiting for it
to give me a nice big candle and if you
watch the vignette video i did i
i sell the uh
the one contract and then it gives that
little bit of a ramped up expansion on
the candle so i'm like ah i just would
have waited one more you know one more
moment it could have gave me a better
feel but whatever and then here is me
closing the
remaining one contract because i was
concerned it was going to take the stop
and i didn't want it to stop out i'd
rather take my price at my own exit and
not let the stop out occur but it never
would have hit it here and just
rebalance that and then at the old high
it round again but still fail to get to
my objective on the day but this was the
draw on liquidity now think about what
i've shown here
i was wrong on this level
and i was wrong on the 40-70 level
but i was able to trade and take the
lions portion of the move in the middle
that's all you need you don't need to be
in here doing
the absolute highest high and the lowest
low you don't need to do that
okay the folks are asking me can you
teach me to do that you don't need to
look at this
wouldn't this keep you
from going hungry
i mean i think it would
i mean this is good eating here i mean
this is a nice move it makes sense and i
don't need this level to get profitable
hold high
yes yes and yes
okay
so
i mentioned i'll go into the smt
diversions in here so let's do that now
all right so i'm adding the little
compare tab it's a little plus symbol up
here if you go into your trading view
click on it it'll give you the drop down
menu for what
instrument or market you want to compare
it to
and you use
nqm2022 this is going to change to nqu
2022 and this symbol for s p will
eventually in a
few days change
to
esu 2022 and it will be basically
tracking the september delivery contract
of both indices right now we're in the
month of june and it's about to roll
over so what we do is we monitor
chart i'm sorry bartchart.com and
whenever the open interest is larger
in the september contract than that of
the june contract that's when i roll
over so that's
how i do it
it's a little different from everybody
else i'm sure but that's what it is i'm
doing when i'm rolling over into the
next month
because these months or these contracts
they expire okay so june won't be traded
anymore in a couple days
and september will and we'll trade
september until
a week or so into september and then
we'll roll over to the december contract
because september will expire
all right so anyway uh with the compare
tab
you're putting in this symbol here as a
selection in the drop down menu and once
it's down here you click on a little
gear
and make sure it's highlighted low
because what we're doing is we're
comparing and contrasting the lows
inside of a fair value gap after a
retracement into a discount when we're
expecting to potentially trade up in
here i'm speaking like you knew this
okay that's how you're supposed to talk
to yourself in your journal
this low versus this low you see that
lower low
is that seen here
low high or low
we're comparing lows so when we're
bullish we're plotting this line down
here
as a compare
and contrast tool
and it's smt smart money tool or smart
money technique i never really settled
on what the t was going to be so that's
why i always say it like that but it's
my way of measuring
real accumulation distribution so if we
know that this area down here is a
discount and we know this is an
imbalance fair value gap it trades down
into a pool of liquidity below that low
as cell stops and i want to buy sell
stops like i've mentioned here i'm
buying the sell stops
inside the fair value gap during a
classic by day which is open at midnight
trade down create the low of the day
rally and then creates an optimal trade
entry or fair value gap or you're going
to buy the short term low
during smt diversions
okay so there's real accumulation here
between the nasdaq and s p
so this tells me that the nasdaq is
failing to go lower so it's under
accumulation and this is just a stop
hunt below that short-term low
see that
now some of you are like you know this
is really complicated ict you know i
really like the optimal trade entry and
these fair value gaps are all over the
place how do i know which one is the one
i want to use okay check this out a lot
of you know how to use optimal trade
entry you'll use the low here to the
high pull your fib up 62 to 79 level if
it goes down to that then you'll buy it
okay that's one pattern
but now watch what else there is this is
turtle suit you have a low
lower low by the low
that's being violated
with optimal trade entry see that
or you can just do this
low high
find the fair value got below 50 level
which is a discount as soon as it trades
at the top level of it hit it there
buy it there stop below the lower low
or level here
there's your there's your pattern
see that
or
you can do this
you can
wait for it to trade down into this like
that and then find the swing high prior
to trading into the fair value gap and
put a buy stop there as your entry
and whatever the lowest low is after it
hits that
that's where your stop loss would be
just right below that and you can be
buying strength
that's not in my opinion the
preferred entry strategy but i'll just
give you a bunch of them
but it's using what
bias that has been corrected and
calibrated based on what the market has
done here at key times
okay so it at 9 30 the market does what
it brings us that volatility we look for
so it shifts higher after we have
another smt diversions
here
but we have that shift higher
it's showing us real accumulation in the
s p it rallies i don't want to chase
that
i wait for it to come back down into a
50 minute time frame
fair value gap which it does
now am i still buying it there i could i
absolutely could do that but i'm not
willing to
because i want to know that what i
thought initially which was 40 70 it
could still wipe out that low it's early
on in the day
so i'm gonna i'm going to wait for the
market to really communicate to me that
the algorithm is pricing in a
narrative
that the afternoon session is bullish
that's it i'm going to give up the
morning session folks
see
just because i'm sitting in front of
charts doesn't mean i'm taking a trade
because
guess what
that gum i'm gonna take a trade because
i've been here all day and i deserve one
it doesn't work like that you have to
wait and be patient there's more time
waiting in between the setups than
actually doing anything
and then it's funny
you have to have
incredible patience in both stages you
have to be very patient waiting for the
setup and then once you get in the trade
you have to be patient and let the trade
pan out
once it comes in the 50 minute time
frame here then it rallies like this
then
i'm comfortable
knowing what i'm looking for what is
that
dealing range low dealing range high fib
across it fifty percent below that
here's a fair value got trade down into
it i wanna buy sell stops
that's just me
i wanna do it because it really
fortifies the setup it allows me to get
in where the smart money will be buying
that little movement here i'm buying
that very candle i didn't buy the next
candle i didn't buy the candle before
that
i bought below that price
41 10 and a half i bought it at 41 10
and a quarter
the things i'm teaching you i'm pushing
a button
it's a really real instance of happening
not something i took a trade and you
never see that happening
okay
i'm showing you example after example
after example of the things i'm teaching
you and i'm using the logic i'm not
creating some falsehood i'm not scamming
you i'm not frauding you i'm not doing
anything except for teaching you what
works what makes these markets book and
they do it every single week
the same kind of stuff all the time
smt diversions here you see that
smt divergence here lower low
higher low here we have the lower low in
nasdaq higher low in s p
that sets the stage for that run higher
okay
i could literally go on and on for about
four more hours just in this chart but i
promised myself i wouldn't make these
videos very long and i know some of you
really want those long ones back
but
i look at the
statistics on my videos and the
attention spans about 10 minutes each
video
so i'm gonna try my best to stay in that
vicinity
can't promise but i'm certainly going to
do it as much as i can and i'm certainly
obviously well beyond that that
limitation here but i know a lot of you
press that uh two times the speed
uh function on the videos
and i get it if you ever listen to me in
a forced uh live session i sound like a
different guy don't i that's because i
don't have that sped up chipmunk sound
that you guys usually put me on
but that's cool i understand everybody's
time is important but hopefully you
found something in this insightful
hopefully you're encouraged by me
actually showing it working and not just
talking about something theoretically
and again
be safe and i'll touch base with you
again on twitter tomorrow i'm sure and
again on thursday in another lecture in
the mentorship